Today, we are starting a new
series, um, in first Timothy.
And when we get done with first
Timothy, we're gonna move on
to second Timothy as well.
But, um, we like walking
through books, the Bible.
And again, if you haven't been here
a long time or if this your first
time, um, you may not know how exactly
we do that, but we love being able
to walk through books of the Bible.
And here's the greatest reason why is,
as a pastor, it challenges me, which
means I can't skip over verses that are
difficult to address or to talk about.
Um, and so for us as a church,
it says same way, right?
We want to walk through books of the Bible
to be challenged on everything that we
read and to learn what God has for us.
And so typically whenever
I start a new book.
I want to be able to kind of catch
everybody up on where we are and
basically the setting and who's,
who's writing this and who's he
writing to and things like that.
So I'm gonna start off this way.
Um, so the book of first Timothy
was wrote by the apostle Paul.
And so I know some of you
know, who the apostle Paul is.
And so I'm going to ask this question.
What do you know about Paul?
On the road to Damascus.
Yup.
Yeah.
Saw Jesus.
Yeah,
There you go.
You pretty much summer
summarized it there.
You know, one of the things I think.
Jesus as well.
And so Peter or Paul was the last one
to see Jesus, obviously on the road
of Damascus, after his resurrection.
Um, and so.
Yes, the apostle Paul wrote many
of the books of the new Testament.
And so as we begin to look at
Paul, Paul was also a missionary.
He, uh, went around to different places,
preach the gospel, stayed for awhile,
built up, um, a group of followers and
he would leave and he would begin to
write letters back to these people.
And a lot of times back to the leaders of
the church, um, and these became churches.
And so really Paul was the.
Missionary church planner,
um, that we know of.
And, um, so today he's writing
in this book to Timothy right
now, it's the first Timothy, but
it's the first letter to Timothy.
Um, and it says this in the first couple
of verses that the Timothy was the truth.
And the faith.
And so really Paul had saw Timothy.
And so this is the second part of
the character as his true son, see
Timothy most believe was saved during
one of Paul's missionary journeys.
And it was after he was saved.
He grew in his faith by his grandmother
and his mother who invested in him.
And Paul began to see how he had grown
in his face so much that he invited
him on missionary journeys with him.
And so Timothy learned
from Paul so much, so that.
Uh, placed him in this
leadership position here.
Um, and really Timothy is actually
over the church of emphasis
known as the pastor of emphasis.
And so if you were here, when we
were in the book of Ephesians,
that obviously is the place in
which Timothy was the pastor of.
And so that's where we
had these characters.
So we have Paul who's writing to
Timothy as true son in the faith.
And he's writing to him, um, to talk
about a couple of different things.
And so first Timothy
three 15 tells us this.
It says I have written.
And this is Paul saying
to Timothy I've written.
Just set up how it's leadership
is built up and called to put in
place and how the church should act.
But a second thing that we'll learn
and we'll learn it even beginning
in these first couple of verses
that we'll read today through the
first 11 verses is that Paul was
writing Timothy to confront false.
False teaching.
And so today we're going to talk
about how we should teach the truth.
And it's interesting in a church
setting the greatest way to
teach the truth that starts.
Obviously I'm in the church, but it also
us as believers, as we're talking to other
people, we're wanting to teach the truth.
Um, and there's going to be reasons why
we talk a little bit more about that.
Um, and so there were teachers
in this church, um, of emphasis
that were not teaching the
truth, they were false teachers.
And here's a couple of things that
throughout the book that we'll learn
that they were teaching incorrectly.
One is some of these false
teachers were teaching incorrect
assumptions about the wall.
They were teaching works rather than.
Um, some of them were teaching
that you shouldn't get married.
Um, and some of us may agree to that.
My wife's done in here.
I love her.
I should definitely get married, but
it was teaching not to get married
and not to eat certain kinds of food.
And again, we'll get into more of that
later on something we'll learn today, they
were promoting theories, um, over truth,
which was leading to arrogance conflict.
Um, and basically leading people
to turn away from their faith.
And so obviously that's a critical
issue in the church that he was
writing to Timothy about, and
he needed him to address that.
Um, interestingly enough, whenever
I started thinking about false.
I started thinking about, we are
approached with that all around
us, in our world and our own
city, um, in our day-to-day lives.
And we'll, we'll get to talk a
little bit more about that, but I
wanted to mention something to you.
That's reminded me, um, since we've been
here for almost now two years, and as
I've got to know people, we went door
to door, meeting, different people.
One of the things that I've learned
at least locally in Hamilton
is what I would call spiritual.
Um, and, and the only reason why I say
it's called spiritual confusion is there,
if you really look around, Hamilton's
got a lot of churches, a lot of different
denominations, a lot of different beliefs.
And as you begin to have conversations,
a lot of times people view, whenever you
talk to them about your church view you
or your church through the last church
experience, they had negative or positive.
And so a lot of times we're
breaking down barriers, right?
We're trying to figure out.
What they came out or what they
believe in and where, where they come.
And, and it's important for us to
know the truth so that we can come
to an agreement on what truth is.
Um, and so we're going to learn a
little bit more about that as well.
And so this first challenge as
we jump into this text is that.
Um, we need to learn how
to teach the truth, right?
And first Timothy is going to teach us
how to teach the truth and correct false
teachings and more and more things.
And so we're going to jump
into this text again, first
Timothy chapter one, verse one.
We're gonna have the verses
up here on the screen.
Um, so, um, if you guys want
to turn to that, you can.
And so here's what it says.
Let's pray before we jump
into this Lord, Jesus.
Um, we're just asking that you use
this word today to teach us to help
us know what your word has to say and
how we can apply it to our lives Lord.
And so we pray this.
So the first thing we see here in
these first four verses is a charge
from Paul and this is a charge or
a challenge to Timothy directly.
And one of the things that I
realized that the front of this.
How can Timothy received this charge
from Paul and actually believe
like this is valuable information.
Will we see this in the first two verses
again, one, we see that Paul is listed in
the first verse as an apostle of Christ.
Jesus.
The other is that
Timothy was his true son.
I already kind of mentioned this
a bit earlier, but it was easy for
Timothy to receive a charge or a
challenge to go live his faith out
in a certain way to lead this church
because of his relationship with Paul.
I don't know about you
guys, but I tend to.
Timothy has a pastor is
dealing with false teaching.
He's dealing with how
do I set up leadership?
And so he's welcoming this letter letter.
And I remember this as early,
especially early on, um, with our
kids and things, my sister and my
brother-in-law, the doctor and a nurse.
Every single time we were
sick or the kids were sick.
We made a phone call to them.
Because they had knowledge.
We didn't have, they had something
to be able to speak into, Hey,
you, you need to go to the doctor.
Hey, you may need this medication.
No, you're good.
Right.
And so we all seek wisdom from
people that we respect and value,
and that's exactly why Timothy
was able to receive this charge.
And here's the reason why I bring this up.
I think most of you probably are like me.
We don't like being told
what to do or how to do some.
'cause, we're kind of like, I want
to do what I want to do, where I want
to believe what I want to believe,
but those we respect when they speak.
We listen.
So my encouragement for you is
we are getting, um, a chart.
Just like Timothy is from Paul.
Who's respected, who knew
Jesus and followed after God.
And so some of the things we may deal
with in this text is difficult, but it's
good for us because we trust the source.
We trust the understanding
that the heart of this is good.
And so that's exactly
what Timothy did, right?
So Paul's first charge to Timothy
was, and sometimes we would miss
this, his first charge in verse three.
It says, I urge you, um, as I urged
you, when I was in Macedonia remain in.
So why would it be difficult for
a pastor to remain an emphasis?
The pastor of the church?
Does anybody here like conflict?
Anybody?
I mean, some of you probably really do.
I don't know.
Maybe that's you, we don't like conflict.
We don't like having to deal with
disagreements and people who are
believing or teaching or, and so
we would rather just run, Hey, is
there another place I can go pass?
There's another place
that I can go do my job.
Well, this is what.
Paul saying, this is the second
time as I urge you in Macedonia.
I'm urging you again, stay in emphasis.
Don't give up don't back down.
Um, and I think we can relate to that.
And it was interesting.
Some of the reasons to that Timothy
May be struggling with this is one
first Timothy four 12 tells us this.
It says Paul was told or told
Timothy not to let anyone despise
his youth, but to set an example for
all the believers in speech and in
conduct and in love and impurity.
And so we realized that
Timothy was young enough.
And so those of you who may be young in
your faith, and maybe just not confident
you can relate with what Timothy, right.
He may want to move on.
And for us, we may want to move
on whenever we're challenged
to step up and step out.
But what Paul seen is
don't give up, don't leave.
I'm going to give you some
encouragement, stay faithful.
This is valuable.
Don't give up.
This challenge that I have for
you, so remain in emphasis.
And so sometimes we need someone to
give us a good charge or someone to
give us an encouragement, to remain
where we are to stay faithful.
Maybe it's in your marriage,
maybe it's in your job.
Maybe it's in your home.
I don't know, whatever difficult issue.
Maybe somebody needs an encouragement
today to stay the course that
God's presence is with you.
And that if you'll address it, if you'll
work through it, that there'll be good.
On the other side of this, the
second charge we see that comes from.
As to address false teaching
to address false teaching.
So Timothy again is instructed
to address certain people
not to teach false doctrine.
And again, we already mentioned some
of the ones listed above, right.
And incorrect assumptions about the law.
Works-based salvation.
Again, no one should get married,
promoting green theories over truth.
Um, and even we'll see this in verse four,
following myths and endless genealogies.
And so the one we'll specifically deal
with today in this text will be how.
They were trying to teach people about
the law to go back to works rather than
the grace and mercy of God through Jesus.
They wanted them to begin to work
for their salvation, which means if
you do all these great things and you
fall all this list of rules and meet
this, then you're holy you're perfect.
You're saved.
And so Paul is saying no, no, no, no.
Like that was fulfilled through Jesus.
He fulfilled the.
Which means those things aren't
honest now, now will desire to
do certain things, but those are
not what makes us right with God.
Jesus makes us right with God.
So that's really specifically
what Timothy is addressing here.
And so there's some, a negative
outcomes that happens whenever
we talk about false teaching.
But I want to talk about just
how does that work today?
So what are some false teachings
that you've heard in today's society?
What are some things that we have
dealt with maybe in our society
of what false teaching there is a.
Anything you can think of.
Yeah.
Yep.
Yeah, absolutely.
Right.
It goes back to being, trying to be
perfect or trying to hit a certain
standard to get right with Jesus.
That's good.
What's another.
All roads lead to heaven.
Yeah, absolutely.
What else?
Anything else you can think of?
Prosperity gospel.
Right.
So explain that what's
prosperity gospel mean?
Right.
Absolutely.
So the here's what ends up
happening with false teaching.
And so, so we can all get
on the same page with this.
A lot of times with false teaching
it's teaching half-truths.
So part of it is usually good or right.
In idea.
But then when you begin to look
at it even further, you begin to
find that there's nowhere in the
Bible that affirms those beliefs.
And that's where we talk about how.
We teach truth.
Well, we don't teach it from
our conviction or what we think.
We teach it from the word of God and
we go, and we find an, a see if the
word of God affirms those things.
So there's a negative outcome
to these false teachings.
We see this in Timothy and
we also see this in our life.
It says this in verse four, it says, um,
it says, you know, not to teach false
doctrine or to pay attention to miss and
endless genealogies, these promote empty
speculations rather than God's plan, which
operates by faith is distracting people
away from Jesus and putting the focus
on whatever the other thing is, works.
Goodness, positive thinking.
You know, all these things that
are apart from God's grace.
So they take us away from that, right.
And forming theories rather than
evidence trying to place really ourselves
back in position of control of that.
I started thinking about this.
Anybody ever see disputes over false
information on social media, anybody.
Yes, that happens all the time.
Right?
So we have fact checkers now.
And so I'm not here to deal with
that, but it just made me think
about this is all over social media.
Something will get pushed in, in what ends
up happening is people begin to follow.
Without even truly knowing like
what the background of it is, right?
Is that even based on true information,
because information can be made up.
I told somebody the other day, they said,
well, well, on the internet, it says this.
And I said, if you have an idea of
something and you want it affirmed,
you can type it in the internet and
Google, and it'll affirm it for you.
It's there.
So my point is, is we live in a
society where we're consistently
being pressured with information.
Now, the question is, how
do we know if it's true?
How do we know if it's false on a,
what I would say a spiritual level,
we do have the ability to test it,
to test it and see if it's truth.
But here's the question who usually
ends up getting caught in following
after false teaching or false
information, who is it that usually gets.
You okay.
Maybe it's all of us.
So I would say it's probably
those who don't know where to go
to find out if something's true.
So great example.
And again, this isn't necessarily a
spiritual thing, but go back to my sister.
My brother-in-law.
Why did I call.
I didn't go to medical school for
eight years or nursing school for how
many years I just, I don't even know.
And if I go to Google again,
I can find whatever I want.
So I'm going to go to a source.
So I go to them, I go to a source
many times, we don't know what
source to go to, to test it.
Um, and so it's usually those who
don't have a space or a place to go.
Um, and so the question then
is how do we avoid this?
We avoid.
Following these, these false
teachings by testing everything
we hear against the word of God.
So anything that doesn't stick, ignore it.
Don't believe it.
So now let me step out there because
I want you guys to understand why
we believe that here, anything that
I say as a pastor, anything that
we speak as a church, if you see
something that does not match the
word of God, one don't believe it.
Number two, be kind enough
to come and talk to me about
it or the person about it.
Why I want to say this.
I want to be held
accountable to that as well.
I'm not going to challenge you to
live your life, to address false
teaching and look for truth and
not address our teaching as well.
I want to be correct along
with the word of God.
And every week that I get an opportunity
to stand up here, there may be some
times I say something off the wall
because I'm saying thousands of words.
And if that happens and you say,
Hey, that doesn't seem like truth.
Please come talk to me because I'm
not going to be that person that says.
You know, one way here
and another way there.
So I want to be held to that same standard
as well, but here's the reason why I bring
this up is churches are becoming more and
more prominent places for false teaching.
And the reason why I know this again
is the more conversations I have, their
reason why most people are not going
to church that used to go to church
is they will say they're hypocrites.
They're teaching something wrong.
They, they, they did this, they did that.
And so we as.
That's just the stigma on churches, right?
To, and if you think about a
lot of churches, why do they
teach false teaching one?
Because they love a following.
So if you teach certain things that
people love to agree on, you'll get,
you'll get grain, a crowd, right.
Or even a following
another is financial gain.
You'll see some churches do it so
that they can gain financial gain.
You'll see other people do it because it's
easier then to actually teach the truths.
So go back to, none of us raised
our hand about loving to address.
So if we don't address it, if we
don't say anything, then it's easier.
And then now, well there's
people, it's gotta be good.
And we're forgetting that the most
important thing is to teach the truth.
So the other thing I would say, this
is a lot of times false teachers
don't come out with a sign on
their head, Hey, false teacher.
And I think that's what we want to know.
Right.
We would love, again, fact checker.
We all know that the articles that come
out with that we'd love to walk around.
And when somebody says
something that pops up false.
I mean, we would because that's
easier, but that's not true.
So sometimes when we hear something
we have to go, Hm, is this right?
I don't know what, where can I work?
And I say wa one, I'm going to
ask for wise counsel from those.
I know, but I'm going to be seeking
the word to know this as well.
So we see here in this as obviously
Timothy was given a charge to address
these false teachings with truth.
But I love how Paul
doesn't to say address it.
And then Timothy has to go figure it out.
He says this, he says he gave Timothy
a goal to aim for when he addresses it.
And it says this in verse five,
he says, now the goal of our
instruction or our goal of correction
or our goal of addressing these
false teachers is this is love.
That comes from a pure heart, a
good conscience and insincere.
So his goal was to correct these
false teachers with love, with love.
Now, when I read that, I go, Hey, I
actually see a lot of people, correct?
False teaching with hate,
with anger, with divisiveness.
That's, that's something
I kind of grew up with.
I seen in my life even in recently
is a lot of times we want to address
something with anger or frustration.
Because again, if it's false teaching you,
you want to make sure people know what's.
And, and I'm not saying
don't waiver on the truth.
Cause sometimes people want to waiver
on the truth just to make sure we
don't have controversy, but I would
say this as he's speaking about love.
And when I begin to look
at love, love is affection.
It's Goodwill, it's benevolence, it's
brotherly love, which means this, you
address false teaching with the person
with compassion, with compassion.
So Timothy's goal is love with a pure
heart, a good conscience and a sincere.
And I think those things are pretty clear.
When we think about a pure
heart, you don't have a motive.
I'm a good conscience, which means
you've sought the Lord in it.
And it's sincere faith, knowing that
we have the opportunity to as well
to, to, to be sometimes in the wrong.
And that was the other side of it is with
love means you're coming in knowing that
you need to listen to, you need to listen
because maybe there's something wrong in
your heart as well when it comes to this.
So he says, why, you know, why.
Should we address it with level
verse six says this, it says some
have departed from these and turn
aside to fruitless discussion.
So they've departed from love and
have focused on fruitless discussions.
And if you study a little bit
more, what ends up happening is
this false teaching was creating
disunity, anger, pride in the church.
So what Paul was saying
is the gospel, the truth.
Creates love.
And the church creates love
in addressing one another.
And I love how he even says this.
It's not, he says the instruction is love.
That comes from pure heart.
So it's not just the attitude in which you
go into the addressing of false teaching.
It's what you come out of your
wanting to come out of this with
love, not just go into it with.
So I would say this, why does it
sometimes we end up getting to these
discussions over false teaching or
different beliefs and anger comes out.
I would say most of the time, people don't
go on with those attention intentions.
Right.
They have the right motives, but
somehow it turns into fighting or
bickering or what I would say, gloves.
Come on.
So, let me ask this question to you.
Why do you think that some of the
discussions that we have when we have
differences of beliefs and we're talking
about addressing some false information
or false belief, why do you believe
that fighting or arguing happens happens
when we address these things pride?
Anything else you can think of?
Confusion?
I would say many times they don't
go in with a wrong heart, her where
they going with the wrong heart.
So we look here, he says that they
go with love with a pure heart, a
good conscience and a sincere faith.
I think many people go in with perceived
love and they don't have a pyramid.
They are coming in with a wrong
heart of correction, right.
Wanting to justify themselves rather than
to really get to the truth and the issue.
Right.
And I would even say this, sometimes
we address it with anger because we're
so angered over the false information.
And two wrongs don't make
a right to angry people.
Don't make it just doesn't work.
Right.
Um, I've found this with, with my.
That anytime we get an
unheated discussions, cause
it's not arguments, right?
It's just heated discussions.
If both of us go into heated
discussions, we get nowhere.
But a lot of times, if the one person
is coming with a heated discussion
and the other person comes in with a
little bit softer tone and yes, the
other person gets a little bit mad too.
But then in the end you tend to solve
things, but you don't solve things by
going in with anger and frustration.
And it says, basically we're
answering this question.
How w how did the false
teachers end up where they were?
How did they end up teaching
the false information?
Because I would say this sometimes
false teachers don't intend
to teach false information.
And this is where Paul talks
about this in verse seven.
He says they want to be teachers
of the law, although they don't
understand what they're saying
or what they're insisting on.
So why would they want to become teachers?
And this day you look at teachers were
people who stood in front of crowds.
Maybe they wanted to following.
Maybe they wanted to be a teacher.
They wanted to aspire to be a teacher.
And we're going to talk about this
later on in verses a chapter three
about how this is not many should
aspire to be elders or teachers.
Why?
Because there is a, a
weight that comes with it.
And so maybe they didn't think about that.
And so it's, it's interesting when
you think about this is that they were
really, if you think about it just
ignorant and that word sounds bad, but
ignorance just, they didn't know better.
They didn't know better.
Um, and so that makes sense, right?
This explains why, when we hear him
tell us to address these things with
love is we're dressing people who may
just not know their, their, their heart.
They didn't know they
were teaching her wrong.
They didn't maybe understand
that what they were doing was.
And here's what I look as is Jesus
says this in, in, in Luke 23, 34
says father, forgive them for,
they do not know what they do.
Even Jesus on the cross saw people who
thought they were doing something right by
crucifying him and what Jesus recognizes.
They did not understand.
And he said, forgive them.
He had compassion on them too many
times when we go to a tress, false
teaching or someone who disagrees with
us, we're addressing them with anger.
The enemy's not them, the
person, we're not the enemy.
When we have disagreements, we have an
enemy that's deceiving and confusing us.
And so when we go into these
conversations, we go into
them with love and compassion.
We're not going to waiver on truth,
or we're going to go into them with
truth and love with truth and love
because that's the way that Jesus model.
So Paul's charge again, was to
stay for Timothy to stay and
address this false teaching.
Right.
And Timothy's goal should be
instruction with love, right?
Truth with love, but knowing who the
enemy truly is, but for him and for us.
And I think this is for us as won't
get begin to learn is in order to
correct false teaching, we have to
know what false teaching is there is
and what, how we test false teaching.
And so that's what Paul begins to
explain here in verses eight through 12.
How we need to understand the
false teaching specifically here,
what Timothy was addressing.
So it says this in verse eight, it
says, but we know that the law is good,
provided one uses it legitimately.
And so when we look at this first charge
here, as he's addressing false teachers
over the law, but he's saying that
there's a good part of what he's teaching,
which means the law itself was good.
It's there for a reason.
Um, and when we think about the old
Testament law, again, it was given.
And the old Testament it was
given to follow for a time.
It was given to reveal the sin
that was in their life and their
need for God's forgiveness.
But sometimes it was used as a
standard to hit, to justify them
rather than a standard to see
and know you'll never make, but
knowing that God did through Jesus.
So he affirmed again that
it was taught correctly.
It would be valuable.
But we see here in verse nine, it
says this, it says, we know that
the law is not meant for the.
But for the lawless and the rebellious
and he goes on and on and on.
And so these false teachers
were leading people away from
grace and back into legalism.
And the challenge to that today
is I believe we still deal with
that currently in our society.
Why I love to have things in my control.
Anybody else like you, I mean,
if you don't like things into
your control, be surprised.
Yes, you do too.
Good.
I'm not the only one I saw you nod.
That makes me feel good.
Good.
We like to, to have control of our lives.
So when we take the law and
we say, well, I can hit this
mark and I can hit this market.
It makes me feel good.
And it's all about me.
It really ends up taking
the need from God, right.
That we even need God.
Well then when we keep hitting these
standards and all of a sudden we feel.
We missed the mark again, and we missed
the mark again and we missed the mark
again and we go, we'll never attain.
It will never attain it.
And again, that's the problem.
He was said he was drawing
believers away from Jesus back to
their own control of their faith.
And I'll tell you that that's a burden.
That is a burden that is never for us to
be to bear because you'll never hit it.
I struggle and fell every day.
And if I didn't have grace and mercy, I
think I would give up, I would give up.
And so we see here, um, that, uh, in
Jesus said this in Matthew 23 through
27, when he's talking about the, those
who try to work for their salvation,
this is what ends up happening.
So Matthew 23, 27, 3 28 says this
woe to you, scribes and Pharisees.
He says hypocrites.
And again, that he's speaking to the
teachers of the law, he says you're like
whitewashed tombs, which appear beautiful
on the outside, but inside are full of
bones of the dead and every kind of.
And he kind of gives a little
bit better explanation of this.
He says in the same way, on the
outside, you seem righteous, but on
the inside, you're full of hip-hop
Hickock, hypocrisy, and lawlessness.
And so what happens when we try to follow
the law is on an outward appearance.
We feel justified, but
inward we're still dying.
We're still struggling because we'll
know we'll never meet that expectation
that God has from us, which is a
perfect, perfect following of that.
So, let me share just a brief
briefly about my testimony and
why this means so much to me.
I spent my first year, so after we had
our daughter, our first daughter, um,
we realized we needed to be figured
this whole religious thing out.
At least I did, my wife had a
better figured out than I did.
So I'm like, all right,
we'll go to church.
I spent the first year in church.
Listening to the word and going, I
need to be better and I would go home
and I would, I would try to do this
and I would try to try to do that.
And then I would try to think better
and not look at that or think that, or
maybe I'm going to open my Bible today
and meant, it seemed like for a whole
year, it was exhausting for a whole year.
I got a little bit better, but
something was missing because
I knew I couldn't do it.
It took me a year to realize on that.
I'll never meet that expectation.
And I laid down, basically, I laid
down every expectation ahead of myself
and I said, Jesus, I need you to
meet the expectation that you have.
And at that moment, the burden was lifted.
The pressure was lifted.
Now, did I still aspire to do good
things and to follow after Jesus?
Absolutely.
But it was without the burden of,
I have to hit this expectation.
And so I needed.
Grace and mercy, and it took me a year.
And for some of you, maybe you're
wrestling with that same thing of
why do I keep just missing the mark?
And I keep being defeated.
No seek Jesus.
And he will help you.
Not right.
He'll meet that expectation.
And so the law again, was
not meant for those who have
given their lives to Christ.
And so when we think about the laws of
believer, it's meant to remind us, and
this is my challenge for you today, as
a believer, it's meant to remind you of
what you came out of, that you don't have
to do that Jesus would fulfill the law
and that we are free from that burden.
But then he specifically talks
about the unbeliever, right?
And he lists 14 different kinds of
people that are condemned by the law.
And it's not an all-inclusive
statement because even.
At the end of it.
He ever mentioned those 14 things
he says, uh, and for whatever
else is contrary to sound teaching
that conforms to the gospel.
So if there was something on these 14,
it's like, well, I'm, these don't even
list me it's because any way that we fall
short that doesn't meet that expectation.
Right.
And so what is the law's purpose
for those who don't know Christ,
it's a mirror it's and it's a it's,
it's a way to look at and say, What
in my life is not right with God.
And what we'll find is, as we look
in the mirror, we see blemishes, we
see things that we're, we're never
going to, to correct, or we're going
to ever be able to hit the standard.
And so it's, it's, it's this
big, um, again, picture where
the law is used to expose and
convict those who break the law.
Right.
But it can't save them.
And so I want to show
you guys a picture here.
Um, and this picture is going to be pretty
funny, cause you're going to blow it.
You're going to see that all of
us are dirty on this picture.
And so let me tell you the story
behind why this means so much to him.
So I went, he used to go to,
when I was in my old church in
Oklahoma, we went on a mission trip
to Ghana, west Africa every year.
And this year we happened
to go and we had a big team.
We had 20 people, so you should
bring 20 people to Africa and they
say, Hey, here's how we're going
to haul you in the back of trucks.
And so we put like six or eight of our
team members in the back of trucks and
we would drive two hours out in the.
And we would plant churches and train
leaders while we were at the back end
of our trip and it poured and we had to
jump back in the truck and it got dark
and we drove home two hours driving
home and we walk inside the guest
house and everybody starts laughing.
Those who were inside the cab obviously
were clean, but we were on the outside.
They start laughing and we're
like, why are you laughing?
They're like your Teeter
teeth are so wide.
Like, what do you mean?
Cause you're so dirty.
Like basically we were covered in
dirt and they had to take a picture
so we could see our condition.
So let me give you an example here.
We had no clue our condition.
So the law, when we look into
the law, the law tells us our
condition that we'll never.
Meet the expectation guys has
forced that we have areas of
our life that are not right.
That will, will struggle to ever
be right with God apart from grace.
So what did we do when
we saw that picture?
The first thing we knew
we needed was a shower.
So we went, took a share.
Now here's the thing.
It took me a long time to get
the dirt out of the crevices.
Right.
And I probably still found some many days.
And after that shower, I felt
refreshed and freed from what I
had experienced after seeing that
picture and realizing how dirty I was.
I think about that with Jesus is when we
come to Jesus, we're new, we're clean.
And that burden of sin that I had in
my life to the expectations with all
the pressure had on my life, roofs
removed because I came to Jesus and
recognized my need recognized my name.
See James 1 23.
3 24 says this.
It says if anyone is a hearer of the
word and not a doer, he is like someone
looking at his own face in a mirror for,
he looks at himself and goes away and
immediately forgets the person he was
see when we look into the law and see our
condition and our inability to meet its
requirements, we have to make a choice.
We, we can't walk away.
When you see that picture,
you can't walk away and go.
I'm just going to forget my condition.
I can't walk away and not
recognize my need for a shower.
See when we see the law, we
can't walk away and forget it.
But at times we do, especially when
we don't know Christ, we walk away and
we, we forget because we don't want
to address our need for someone else.
We love being able to
handle things on our own.
We love to be able to make ourselves feel.
But we'll never be right apart from that.
And so Paul reminds us here and I love
this, this idea as we really finish up
today, it's Paul reminds us that the
law and the gospel worked together.
They're not meant to be
at war against each other.
And here's just a great quote.
I wish I would have put it up here
so you could read it with me, but it
says this Warren Wisbey says this.
He says the law without the gospel is
just a diagnosis of our condition without.
I'm gonna say that again, the law, without
the gospel, as just a diagnosis of her
condition without the remedy, but the
gospel without the law is only good news
of salvation for people who believe that.
I don't know if that makes sense to you.
And I'm going to kind of
repeat this in a different way.
When we look into the law and
we don't have the gospel, we see
something we'll never be cured of.
We'll never meet the expectations and
we're only going to live a defeated
life because we can't meet those.
If we only have the gospel, we go, great.
You have a cure for
something I don't need.
I don't see a need for it.
But when we put them together,
we recognize our need and
we've been given the medicine.
That's.
The law and the gospel, which is found in
the word of God, which is truth, working
together, not against each other, it's not
one or the other it's working together.
And so I think when we look at this,
Paul is challenging Timothy to remove
the burden from the believers who
were trying to go back and fulfill
the law and say that the law has
already been fulfilled through Jesus.
And those who are in the church
that may not know Christ, he's
removing the burden that they are
trying to attain on their own.
And he's giving them the cure.
Through the gospel.
That's what we have today.
So Paul's challenge to Timothy
was the teach the truth
and correct false teaching.
He, again, he charged him with
you to instruct and correct
with love, with love, right?
With the response of it, to come
out with love and to remove again,
the burden of works focused, right?
To be able to justify yourself
through works rather than great.
So what's our take home.
And I started asking myself this
question, okay, that's great for
Timothy and the church of emphasis
and the leader of ministry.
Great.
He's addressing false teachers.
Whoo.
What's that mean for us?
So here's my challenge.
I started thinking through this, I believe
God has charged us as a church, right?
He's given us this word
to walk through today.
He's charged us as a
church to teach the truth.
He's charged us as a church to
create false teaching, starting
right here within our service.
But then sending us out daily to confront
truths or false teaching with truths.
How do we address false
teaching with truth one?
We've got to know the truth.
So we need to spend time with in
the word, seek the word, test.
Anything that would be taught to when
to address with love, with love, not
hate, not judgment, but with love with
the outcome and the prayer that you
have in your heart of love to come.
Right.
And this is as a church.
We want to have open
conversations about truth.
Right?
Love shared with truth.
And I started thinking about this
verse, John 1335 says this by
everyone, or by this, everyone will
know that you are my disciples.
If you love one another, our love for
one another will prove our love for
Christ and the love that he's shown us.
So my challenge for us
is to take these things.
And to live them out in our lives
to teach truth, to give truth to
others that were challenged and
also receive the truth from others.
That may be one.
I didn't talk about enough as
received truth from others with love.
And to address these things that we have
to deal with with the law, if you're
living in a way that you're following
the law, or you're trying to attain
something on your own, apart from grace.
So this is how I want us to respond.
As we go into invitation, we
w here's what invitation is.
And I challenge every week.
This is, we don't come in to teach you
something where you're like, okay, great.
That was great.
Let's clap hands.
And we're going to walk out of here and
high five it's it's time to actually
take time at the end of our message and
say, Hey God, what does this mean to.
Like, how does this apply to my life?
What should I begin to take home for?
And so this is why we have
something called imitation.
Imitation is really a time to
reflect and seek your heart.
And so a lot of times our
worship team will come up
here and they play music real.
Here's what I would say is if
you're in a quiet room, a lot of
times it's difficult to think.
And so what times we just fill the
room was a bit of music and give
you some time to consider God.
What are you teaching?
What do you have for me?
And so this is what I would just love for
you guys to do is just go ahead and close
your eyes, bow your heads, and to begin
to get an attitude of, of really openness.
Okay.
Lord, speak to me.
And as you're doing that, I'm just going
to share a few things with you that you
can begin to consider in your heart.
So go ahead and do that right now.
And then I'm just going to
share a few things with you.
Um, I believe just based upon the
word of God today, as we were.
That God could be challenging
each one of us this.
And so maybe this is what you
pray to God that you commit to,
to rejecting false teaching.
Right.
And you begin to commit to testing
it against the word of God.
So maybe that's what you
need to reflect on today.
Commit to ask the Lord how to address
these things with love, right?
To confront these teachings with.
Something that my challenge to you is,
is I think the church is known more for
what we're against than what we're for.
And maybe this is a time where you
challenge yourself to continue to
teach other people what we're for.
We're for them.
We're for truth.
We're for Jesus.
Here's my challenge, as well as
maybe this is a time for you.
If you are a believer to take time in
this reflection to thank God for Jesus.
For grace and mercy and forgiveness
again, of what the law reveals,
maybe that's where you're at today
is just the attitude of praise and
Thanksgiving for what God did through
Jesus that he removed that burden.
So maybe that's during your time of
reflection, you're asking God that
here's one that I'll really want to
challenge you on though, is if maybe
you came in here today and you've
been trying to live your life right.
To be.
Thinking that that's all
it takes to be right with.
God it's just to be good.
Good enough.
And maybe today you hear the law and
you hear the, you think about man,
I, I'm probably never going to hit
all these marks that, that really
the law presents as these list of
things and rules I should follow.
And maybe you realize that
what you need is Jesus.
The thing that Peter or somebody
Paul was pressuring and challenging
Timothy to teach, which is grace,
mercy and freedom from your sin.
Maybe that's you today.
It is, if that is you today, where
you need to give your life to Jesus,
which means this, you want to and
desire to receive that grace and
mercy from Jesus so that you can
remove that burden you can today.
We don't, I would say this, and
that's what I love about Jesus.
He doesn't complicate this.
You don't have to go through all
these works to receive salvation.
It's an attitude of the heart.
Here's what God says.
How do we give our lives to Jesus?
How do we remove the burden of trying
to follow the law and try to be.
Is by admitting that you've fallen
short, that you have a need and
that you can't meet the, meet the
requirement of the law, right.
That you can't follow up perfectly.
So you admit you have a need, you admit
that you need Jesus to save you from that
brokenness and commit to following him.
Here's what the Bible says is if you'll
believe in your heart and confess with
your mouth, who the Lord Jesus is and
your need for him, that you'll be safe.
So that's what it takes.
Maybe that's what you need.
And so during this time reflection,
maybe that's what you need to pray.
Lord, save me, change my heart
and giving my life to you.
If that is you hear is
a bold challenge to you.
God has not challenged you to accept
Christ and keep it to yourself.
He's called you to accept Christ
and be a part of the body of
Christ, where we celebrate together.
If you want to, or if you have given
your life to Christ in this moment
of praying, I want you to come talk
to me during this time of invitation.
I want you to come talk to me
after service and say, Hey Ben,
I've given my life to Jesus, or
I want to give my life to Jesus.
I want to talk about what it means to
follow Jesus and experience that freedom.
I'll tell you going one more day of
saying you'll do it next week is only
going to be more burden for you to face
when God has freedom to give you today.
So what we're going to
do is I'm going to pray.
And we're just gonna take a few minutes
where you continue to reflect on that
as they pray softly, and whenever
they lead us in worship, you stand.
And at any moment you need prayer.
You want to talk about
giving your life to Jesus.
I'm going to be in the back
there to talk to you about that.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We love you, Lord.
And God, we are so thankful for your
word because we know it as truth.
And we know that in it is life,
life, where we don't have to be
burdened by all the things we think
we need to do to be right with you.
All the things we think we
need to do to be justified.
To be perfect.
Lord is all we need is you.
And if we'll just turn our lives to
you, Lord, that we will receive freedom.
And that as we walk in that freedom Lord,
that we will enjoy the things we do and
we'll do the things we do out of love.
Not out of half to Lord.
I pray if there's someone in this room
that needs to give their life to you,
Lord, I pray today is the day that Lord,
they will not let one more day go by,
but that today's the day of salvation
that they will give their lives to you.
And then begin to walk in
the truth that they do know.
Lord.
I pray if there's someone in this
room that maybe it's just as, I've
been a believer for awhile, that
is burdening themselves, Lord, with
trying to meet these expectations
that they have on their lives.
Lord, I pray where you remove that
burden, that they stop trying to
live a life of perfection, but they
start trying to live a life that it's
really just a relationship with you.
And out of that relationship,
look, you will change their life.
So Lord remove that
burden from them as well.
Lord, we pray as a church that
we teach truth that we are not.
Going to be listed among those
who would be false teachers.
Lord, not because, um, we're
better a whole, gosh, Lord.
It's it's really because we
are every week recognizing our
brokenness and need for your truth.
So Lord help us as we go about
our lives to test the teachings
around us and the things we hear.
And Lord, may you give us wisdom
on what truth is to follow?
So Lord, we love you and we
pray this in your holy name.
Amen.